Using traffic analysis to identify anonymous network communications

Encryption typically works on a qualitative basis, changing the meaning of information in such a way that it is time consuming for an observer to reverse the changes to uncover the original meaning. Because it only works on the quality of information transmitted, the quantity of information is available for an attacker to observe. This is the basis of traffic analysis.

Traffic analysis is typically used to infer meaning from the encrypted traffic, to identify what it is being used for. Sometimes it is used to uncover the identity of the participants of an encrypted communication. Or to uncover the purpose. By looking at patterns and trends in the quantity of information being transmitted a lot can be deterined. In the past this has even been used to analyze the passwords people used by measuring the time it takes for an average person to press certain keys.

In the field of anonymization, much research has focused on using traffic analysis to uncover the identities of participants in an anonymous network:

 'The principal objective of an adversary attacking an anonymous communication system is to link the initiators of connections with their respective communication part- ners and vice versa.' (Murdoch and Danezis 2005)

This pattern assumes that attackers are not hostile to the anonymous network itself. Recent attacks on anoymous networks by the PRC and the ROI have shown this to not be the case. The public views anonymous communications as the work of criminals, perverts and those who have something to hide. A real world attacker's motiviation is simply to shut down the anonymous network in it's entirety.

Anonymous networks employ encryption to hide the identity of multiple participants. Thus if the same encryption were used in an anonymous network and in a normal network, the quality of the data would be indistinguishable. This is where traffic analysis comes in, allowing an attacker to isolate anonymous network communications and block them, before they can be used constructively.

Proposal


